Job Title: Data Engineer 
Location: Basking Ridge – NJ  
Experience: 7 to 10 years 
Working Model: Onsite, Hybrid 

Job Overview 

We at Procal are looking for a savvy Machine Learning & Data Engineer to join our team of analytics experts to
help us extract value from our data. You will lead all the processes from data collection, cleaning, and preprocessing, to training models and deploying them to production. On a high level we are looking for very hands-on engineers with good experience on
big data, data architecture, machine learning, and LLM. 

The ideal candidate will be passionate about artificial intelligence and stay up to date with the latest developments
in the field. 

This position will be a combination of typical Data Scientist math and analytical skills, with research, advanced
business, communication, and presentation skills. 

Key Responsibilities 

Develop big data scalable solutions using Hadoop, Hive, Spark, Map-Reduce, Java, Python. 
Design schema and data molding for NoSQL Database & Data Warehouse. 
Develop ETL data flow and Cloud Integration to build reporting solutions. 
Assemble large, complex data sets that meet functional / non-functional requirements. 
Identify, design, and implement internal process improvements: automating manual processes, optimizing data delivery, re-designing infrastructure for greater scalability, etc. 
Build the infrastructure required for optimal extraction, transformation, and loading of data from a wide variety of data sources using SQL and Spark ‘big data’ technologies. 
Designs, develops, codes, and troubleshoots with consideration of upstream and downstream systems and technical implications.
Applies knowledge of tools within the Software Development Life Cycle toolchain to improve the value realized by automation. 
Applies technical troubleshooting to break down solutions and solve technical problems of basic complexity. 
Gathers, analyzes, and draws conclusions from large, diverse data sets to identify problems and contribute to decision-making in service of secure, stable application development. 
Verifying data quality, and/or ensuring it via data cleaning. 
Exploring and visualizing data to gain an understanding of it, then identifying differences in data distribution that could affect performance when deploying the model in the real world. 
Understanding business objectives and developing models that help to achieve them, along with metrics to track their progress. 
Managing available resources such as hardware, data, and personnel so that deadlines are met. 
Designing, developing, and researching Machine Learning systems, models, and schemes 
Studying, transforming, and converting data science prototypes 
Performing statistical analysis and using results to improve models. 
Training and retraining ML systems and models as needed. 
Analyzing the use cases of ML algorithms and ranking them by their success probability 
Understanding when your findings can be applied to business decisions. 
Enriching existing ML frameworks and libraries. 
Build efficient pipeline to host LLM service in local machine. 
Develop high scalable RAG system combining with LLM to serve daily analysis and troubleshooting. 

Key Skill sets 

Good Communication and presentation skills 
Team player 
Experience in R and/or Python required. 
Proficiency with a deep learning framework such as TensorFlow or Keras. 
Proficiency with Python and basic libraries for machine learning such as scikit-learn and pandas. 
Expertise in visualizing and manipulating big datasets. 
Good understanding of AI/ML stack - GPUs, MLFlow, LLM models 
Hands-on practical experience in Java, Scala and/or Python, system design, application development, testing, and operational stability 
Experience in developing, debugging, and maintaining code in a large corporate environment with one or more modern programming
languages and database querying languages 
Experience across the whole Software Development Life Cycle 
Exposure to agile methodologies such as CI/CD, Applicant Resiliency, and Security 
Emerging knowledge of software applications and technical processes within a technical discipline (e.g., cloud, artificial intelligence,
machine learning, mobile, etc. 
Knowledge of Unix shell and SQL as well as NoSQL DBs is required. 
Experience with Linux, Spark, and Kafka. 
Good understanding of Large Language Model from system engineering perspective. 

Qualifications 

MS or PhD in a relevant field (Computer Science, Engineering, Statistics, Physics, Applied Math) 
5+ years of experience with Python to analyze datasets, train , evaluate, deploy, and optimize models. 
3+ Experience with ML frameworks such as PyTorch, TensorFlow, or similar 
3+ years of machine learning/statistical modeling data analysis tools and techniques, and parameters that affect their performance experience. 
1+ year experience working with technologies related to large language models including LLM architectures, model evaluation, adapters,
model customization including pre-training and fine-tuning techniques. 
Proficient with design, deployment, and evaluation of LLM-powered agents and tools and orchestration approaches. 
Proficient with prompt engineering, embedding model fine tuning and retrieval method evaluation and optimization approaches. 
Master's degree in a quantitative field such as statistics, mathematics, data science, business analytics, economics, finance,
engineering, or computer science 