Here is the Job description @Priyanshu 
Job Title: Scala developer

Location: New York, NY(Hybrid)

Duration: contract

Client: Xorient/Morgan Stanley

 

Job Description

 

Responsibilities will include:

Understand and implement tactical or strategic solution for a given business problem
Discussion with stakeholders on business needs and technology requirements.
Define and derive the strategic solutions as well as identify tactical solutions when necessary.
Write technical design & other solution documents per Agile (SCRUM) standards.
Perform data analysis to aid development work and other business needs.
Perform unit testing of the developed code leveraging automated BDD test framework.
Participate in the testing effort to validate and approve technology solutions.
Follow the MS standards for adoption of automated release process across environments. 
Perform automated regression test case suite and support UAT of developed solution.
Work using collaborative technique with other FCT & NFRT teams.
Required Skills

9+ years of experience as a Hands On Scala/Spark developer
Hands on SQL writing skills on RDBMS (DB2) databases
Ability to perform code optimization for performance, Scalability and configurability 
Must have worked at least 2 years in a HDFS platform development project.
Proficiency in data analysis, data profiling, and data lineage
Strong oral and written communication skills
Experience working in Agile projects.
Desired Skills

Understanding of Actimize ACTONE platform features.
Understanding/Development on AZURE Cloud based implementation
Knowledge of Behavior driven development (BDD)
Possess Big data technology certification.
Experience in Machine Learning, predictive Analytic